<h2 style = "text-align: center;"> MSc Computer Science 2022-23 </h2>
<h3 style = "text-align: center;"> Software Development Course Work-1 </h3>
<h3 style = "text-align: center;"> Game Collection Management and Sourcing System </h3>

#### Table of Contents 
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Project Proposal](#project-proposal)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Functional Requirements](2. Requirements.md#functional)
    - [Non-Functional Requirements](2.%20Requirements.md#non-functional)
    - [Capture Methodology](2.%20Requirements.md#capture)
    - [Prioritisation](2.%20Requirements.md#prioritisation)
- [Software Design](#software-design)
    - [Software](3.%20Software%20Design.md#software)
    - [Functional Design](3. Software Design.md#functional-design)
        - [Login Interface](3. Software Design.md#login-interface)
        - [Library Interface](3. Software Design.md#library-interface)
            - [Shelf Layer](3. Software Design.md#shelf-layer)
            - [Box Layer](3. Software Design.md#box-layer)
            - [Pocket Layer](3. Software Design.md#pocket-layer)
        - [Store Interface](3. Software Design.md#store-interface)
        - [Community Interface](3. Software Design.md#community-interface)
        - [Control Flow Diagram](3. Software Design.md#control-flow)
    - [System Design](3. Software Design.md#system-design)
    - [Implementation Path](3. Software Design.md#implementation-path)
- [User Interface Design](#user-interface)
- [Team & Roles](#team)
    - [Team Roles and Assignment of Work](Team Structure and Role Assignment.md#roles)
    - [Communication Process](Team Structure and Role Assignment.md#communication)

<h4>1. Introduction <a name = 'introduction'></a></h4>
Over the last few years, there has been a significant rise in people playing table-top games across the world. This eventually led to the growth of offline gaming industry, where companies have produced games with vast concepts to attract the public in collecting various games, creation of gaming cafes or clubs, hosting friendly competitions. As we can see, this mostly requires the physical presence of the players (single or multiple) as well as the games (such as boards, cards, pieces, dice). Certain difficulties can arise in cases of not finding suitable players, having sufficient space to contain the collected games, managing the game collections due to constant relocation, loss of certain pieces/elements essential in the games. In order to resolve the above conflicts, there are some online websites that help a user in purchasing these games. However, the websites that are currently available are usually lacking in essential features resulting in unpleasant user experience. In this document, we will propose a prototype of a product that can handle the above issues in a systematic and efficient manner. The aim of the prototype is to develop a gaming source online that contains multiple features to ensure smooth and satisfactory user experience. These features and expectations are discussed further in detail through out the document. 

<h4>2. Project Proposal <a name = 'project-proposal'></a></h4>
In order to resolve few issues with current systems, we will develop a website-based solution that aims to help game enthusiasts in managing their game collections. The solution enables a user to browse through all the available games and manage their collections with ease. It allows them to view the reviews and rating of games from trusted sources and also write their own. One of the most helpful features will include provision house rules as well as official rules, FAQs, errata documents to the users. This helps in building familiarity with the game play before the user decides to purchase them. The website aims to provide the user with all available purchase options across various e-commerce websites. In order to improve the user experience, the solution also features a recommendation system based on the users' previous purchases, search history and interests. We will discuss the detailed approach of implementation of the said solution further in this document. 

### 3. Requirements <a name = 'requirements'></a>

Requirements refer to the expectations and features of the prototype proposed in order to solve any real-time problem. Our aim is to propose and develop a solution that will satisfy most of the user requirements and solve the problems mentioned in the introduction section. 

[The requirements document](2. Requirements) can be used as a guide in the development and testing process to ensure that the end product meets the needs of the users. The document also consists of the research done by the team to capture the functional and non-functional requirements of the proposed solution. In order to ensure smooth execution of the product,  the prioritisation section demonstrates the features that need to be developed in order of their importance. 

After gathering the requirements, we will discuss the plan and expectations of the software design for the final product further in the next sections. 

### 4. Software Design <a name = "software-design"></a>
After carefully determining the requirements in the above section, we should now develop the software design that will satisfy them. With the prototype being a web-based solution, we will be focusing on 3 parts of the software: front-end development, back-end development and database management. 

These 3 factors and the system artitecture that will be considered while designing the webpage have been discussed in detail in the [Software Design documentation](3. Software Design.md). The goal of this document is to provide us with the end-vision of the prototype and its working conditions. We have also discussed the detailed control flow of the prototype and how it is expected to work in the end.

### 5. User Interafce Design <a name = "user-interface"></a>
In accordance to the [control flow](3. Software Design.md#control-flow) that was developed in the Software Design, the team has developed the expected [User Interface](5. User Interface Design.md) structure and flow that performs all the tasks mentioned in the functional requirements. 

The team has paid attention to a lot of details in development of the user interface and developed it using the online wireframing tool called [Mockflow](https://www.mockflow.com/). During the development of the prototype, the user interface diagrams and flows mentioned in the document will act as a blueprint on which the team will depend. 

### 6. Team & Roles <a name = "team"></a>
The present software team comprises of 4 members. The tasks were divided between each of them equally and are explained in detail in the [Team Structure](4. Team Structure and Role Assignment.md) file. 

We will be following the agile methodology while working on this project. So far, we had regular scrum meetings and periodic documentation reviews. Since the further parts of the project will involve risk management, planning and coding phases, we will start to inplement sprints and have restrospective meetings.  
