<h1>Game Shack: Solution to Board Game Collection Management</h1>
<h2>Usability Test Report and Analysis</h2> <a name="usability"></a>


## 1. Introduction

This  document provides an overview of the usability of the website prototype 'Game Shack' that was developed by the team. The report is based on usability testing conducted with a group of users. The testing was conducted to identify any usability issues with the prototype and to gather feedback on the overall design and functionality of the site. The goals and methodology used to capture the results of this testing is mentioned in the [usability test plan](9. Usability Test Plan.md#testplan) document. 

## 2. Overview
As part of the usability testing, the users were made to participate and provide feedback on the use of the website prototype called 'Game Shack'. This is a user interactive solution that was developed in order to address to the customer problem that was mentioned in the [introduction](1. Introduction.md#introduction). 

It is a solution attempt to improve management of board games more efficiently online than the existing platforms. The team tried their best to include the requirements of this prototype with use of front-end and back-end techniques that were mentioned in the [software design.](3. Software Design.md#software-design)

'Game Shack' has been designed to help a user manage his collection of his favourite board games online such that he can re-visit and keep track of his interests at all times. Some of the key features of the website include : 
1. Logging in as different users like player, admistrator, game developer, club organiser.
2. Searching for games on the website based on the game name, designer name or artist names. 
3. Having a recommender system that suggests new games to the users. 
4. Join a community that is allocated to each game to stay connected with other users having same interests. 
5. View different components and rules of each game before deciding to purchase it. 

There are various features along with the above that will be discussed in detail in the [prototype and project evaluation](11. Prototype and Prototype Evaluation.md#prototype). 

After development of the beta version of the prototype, it has been decided that it is ready for the usability tests. In order to schedule the tests, 4 team members each took responsibility to record the feedback from 5 users. There were a total of 20 users who were a part of this test and belonged to various age groups. The main goal of the target audience was to include diversity based on factors such as age, number of hours spent on computers, interest in board games. Our aim was to design the site to be user-friendly and easy to navigate, even for people with no prior experience.

## 3. Procedure
This section will describe the parameters that were recorded through out the test. We will discuss about the qualities that the user cohort possessed and how they were useful in analysing the test results, what they have done during the test as well as the results that were collected for analysis. 

### 3.1 Who we tested
During the test, a total of 20 participants took part in evaluating the website 'Game Shack'. Below are the characteristics that they possessed : 


|Age|Computer Usage|
|--|--|
|<table> <tr><th>Age Group</th><th>Number of Users</th></tr><tr><td>11-17</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>18-25</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>26-39</td><td>7</td></tr><tr><td>40+</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><th>TOTAL (participants)</th><th>20</th></tr></table> | <table> <tr><th>Hours per week</th><th>Number of Users</th></tr><tr><td>0-10</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>11-25</td><td>6</td></tr><tr><td>26+</td><td>11</td></tr><tr><th>TOTAL (participants)</th><th>20</th></tr> </table> |

|Gender|
|--|
|<table> <tr><th>Gender</th><th>Number of Users</th></tr><tr><td>Male</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td>Female</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><th>TOTAL (participants)</th><th>20</th></tr></table> |


### 3.2 What participants did
The participants were made to do below activities in sequence: 
1. First, they were contacted by the team members to take part of the usability testing. They were given an overview of the purpose of the test and the tasks that they will be performing. 
2. The pre-requisite steps mentioned in the usability test plan were verified. 
3. Before starting the test, they were allowed to ask questions to the test organisers about any queries for clarification. 
4. They performed the [1-14 mentioned](9. Usability Test Plan.md#usertask) usability tasks with the facilitators' guidance when needed. 
5. They did exploratory testing and have given feedback/comments.
6. They filled the questionnaire given at the end of the test.


### 3.3 What data we collected
In the duration of the test, the data loggers were responsible for collecting different types of data and responses by the users in order to perform usability analysis and find out both advantages & disadvantages of the prototype. 

The recorded data was classisfied into 2 types: 
1. Qualitative Data
    - Observations on navigation routes taken by the users
    - Issues experienced without guidance
    - Answers to commonly asked open-ended questions
    - Comments/Recommendations
2.  Quantitative Data
    - Time spent on tasks
    - Satisfaction rating in questionnaire
    - Success rates
    - Ease or difficulty ratings


## 4. Usability Report <a name="report"></a>
As per the developed [usability test plan](9. Usability Test Plan.md#testplan), there were multiple sessions that were organised by the team members in order to conduct the tests while using our website. This section contains all the results from the usability testing that the facilitators and data loggers have recorded. We have made the respective analysis for each set of data in this section in detail. Below are the results and analysis for the metrics calculated during the usability testing: 


### 4.1 Task Ratings 

After the completion of each task, participants rated the ease or difficult of completing the task for three factors:
- It was easy to find my way to this information from the homepage.
- As I was searching for this information, I was able to keep track of where I was in the website.
- I was able to accurately predict which section of the website contained this information.

The 5-point rating scale ranged from 1 (Strongly disagree) to 5 (Strongly agree). Agree ratings are the agree and strongly agree ratings combined with a mean agreement ratings of > 4.0 considered as the user agrees that the information was easy to find,  that they could keep track of their location and predict the section to find the information

| Task Name |Ease in Finding Information  | Keeping Track of Location in Site |Predicting Information Section | Overall Score|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1-Registering to the website / Logging in to the website | 5 | 5 |4  | 4.6|
| 2-Navigate across the home screen and state their observations | <span style="color:green">4.3</span> |2.3  |4  |3.5|
| 3-Use the search tool for games of their choice |4  | 3.9 |4  |3.96|
| 4-View the game details in a new page |<span style="color:green">4.2</span>|2.6  | 3.2 |3.34|
| 5-See the components of the game |3.6  | 4.3 |4  |4|
| 6-View the game rules and it's description |3.4  |4.3  | 4 |3.9|
| 7-Add a game to the Library/Wishlist |4  |<span style="color:red">2.1</span> | <span style="color:red">3.0</span> |<span style="color:red">3.03</span>|
| 8-Attempt to purchase a game | 3 | <span style="color:red">2.0</span>|<span style="color:red">2.3</span>  |<span style="color:red">2.43</span>|
| 9-Check the recommendations |<span style="color:red">3.1</span>  | 3.4 | 4 |3.5|
| 10-Read or provide reviews and ratings to a game |<span style="color:red">3.4</span> |3.2  |3.6  |3.4|
| 11-Join game commmunities of their choice |3.8  |<span style="color:green">4.5</span>  |4  |<span style="color:green">4.1</span>|
| 12-Look at available clubs and join any if interested |4  | 4 |<span style="color:green">4.3</span>  |<span style="color:green">4.1</span>|
| 13-Check user profile and summary |3.8  |<span style="color:green">4.5</span>  |<span style="color:green">4.4</span> |<span style="color:green">4.23</span>|
| 14-Logging out of the website |5  |4  |5  |4.6|

#### Ease in Finding Information
86% of participants agree that it was easy to navigate across the home screen of the website and present their views in the call to the facilitator or data logger immediately. They were also satisfied with the amount of information that was stored on the game details page for them to view with ease. 

However, around 70% of them pointed out that there was some confusion with regards to the library and wishlist pages with respect to their functionalities. There was also some confusion while purchasing the games. Unlike other e-commerce websites, this website only displays the costs and navigate to the seller links. **Problem Severity: 2**

Lastly, few users felt like the recommendation system could be improved based on their recent searches in contrast to current system that works on library/wishlist. 
**Problem Severity: 2
Frequency: High
Impact: Moderate**


#### Keeping Track of Location in Site
The users expressed the tasks that let them know their location in the website were joining game communities, researching about the gaming clubs and checking user profiles including summary. This was a very straight-forward observation as there are separate buttons on the website ('Join Community', 'Clubs', 'User Profile' respectively) on almost all pages after login that clearly indicate the position at which the user is present in.

On the other hand, they stated that it was difficult for them to keep track of the location when doing tasks like purchasing a new game or writing reviews. Because, in this case, they are navigated to the seller website and while writing reviews, the interface of this page seems to be different from the rest of the pages. 
**Problem Severity: 3
Frequency: Moderate
Impact: Moderate**

#### Predicting Information Section
Similar to the section above, around 90% of the users were able to predict the webpages that were containing information like joining game communities, gaming clubs and keeping track of their profiles as the relevant buttons were present at almost all pages. 

Also, the same tasks that were difficult to keep track of were also difficult in this section. It was hindering the users' explorative performance when they had to differentiate between the library and wishlist more clearly. They also expressed difficulty in adjusting to Task-8 as it resulted in navigate between various websites and wasn't a smooth transition.  
**Problem Severity: 2
Frequency: Low
Impact: Moderate**


### 4.2 Task Completion Rates

Below table consists of the total number of participants who were able to complete a task successfully without any supervision or guidance needed from the facilitator. The task is considered as 'Not Completed' when the user couldn't figure it out themselves and needed extra support in the first try. The completion rates are calculated for each task that was mentioned in the usability test plan. These factors were observed and recorded by the data loggers (team members) during the test and all the observations were combined to form the below table. 

|Task Number |Completed | Not Completed|Completion Rate | 
|---|---|---|---| 
| Task 1|20 |0 |**<span style="color:green">100%</span>** |
| Task 2|18 |2 |90% | 
| Task 3|15| 5| 75%| 
| Task 4|20|0 |**<span style="color:green">100%</span>** | 
| Task 5|12 |8|60% | 
| Task 6|13|7|65% | 
| Task 7|14 |6 |70%| 
| Task 8|11 |9 |**<span style="color:red">55%</span>**| 
| Task 9|16 | 4|80% |
| Task 10|12 | 8|60% |
| Task 11|15 |5 |75% |
| Task 12|10|10 |**<span style="color:red">50%</span>** |
| Task 13|17 |3 |85% |
| Task 14|20 |0 |**<span style="color:green">100%</span>**|

**Observations :** 
1. One of the most crucial requirements to use the website to its full extent is for a user to register or login to a webpage (Task 1) successfully. Hence, the team tried their best to ensure that the first task is done effectively for all users irrespective of ages and qualifications. It is a relief that this task recorded 100% success rate and may require no further changes. 
2. Similarly, the website also ensures that the logout button is visible on all pages in case a user decides to exit from it (Task 14). Due to it being visible on each page, none of the users experienced difficulties in Task 14 and the team observed 100% success rate on it. 
3. It is important that all the data about a game is displayed at one place before a user decides to buy it. None of the users found it difficult to read all the game information such as the description, components, player information, time information, complexity of the game as each game has a clear 'view details' link that displays all relevant information. Hence, Task-4 also recorded 100% success rate. 
4. Few of the simpler tasks included navigating across the home screen and stating their observations (Task-2), checking the user profile and summary (Task-13) and checking recommendations (Task-9). They all recorded success rates above 80% and the user was satisfied with the experience on accomplishing these tasks successfully on their own. 
5. Some users found it confusing between adding a game to the library versus adding a game to the wishlist. Due to this, they thought it was complex in understanding the flow on how to proceed with purchasing a game (Task-8). Unfortunately, this was one of the tasks that recorded only 55% of success rate.  **Problem Severity: 2**
6. Lastly, one of the poorest rates was 50% on a user finding it easy to join a club (Task-12). This is because the users expected that their favourite clubs will be present for them to join immediately but were unable to handle the situation when they couldn't find what they needed. This is recorded as a **critical error** and the team needs to consider on working to **improve this immediately.**  **Problem Severity: 1**

### 4.3 Time On Task 

The data loggers recorded the time on task for 5 participants (considering 1 data loggers observations in this case) and calculated the average time spent on each task. Few tasks were inherently more difficult to complete than others and is reflected by the average time on task in red. 

| Task | P1 | P2 | P3 | P4 | P5 | AVERAGE TOTAL(secs) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Task 1 | 65 | 130 | 20 | 150 | 43 | 123.1 |
| Task 2 | 95 | <span style="color:red">370</span> | 215 | 65 | 127 | <span style="color:red">186.4</span> |
| Task 3 | 61 | 50 | <span style="color:green">15</span> | 55 | 29 | <span style="color:green">73.6</span> |
| Task 4 | <span style="color:red">310</span> | 200 | 80 | 150 | 60 | 129.6 |
| Task 5 | 210 | 110 | 120 | 180 | 79 | <span style="color:green">69.0</span> |
| Task 6 | 71 | 55 | <span style="color:green">30</span> | 67 | <span style="color:green">30</span> | <span style="color:red">210.1</span> |
| Task 7 | 80 | 85 | 90 | 95 | 100 | <span style="color:green">93.3</span> | 
| Task 8 |206 | 211 | 216 | 221 | <span style="color:red">226</span> | <span style="color:red">215.0</span> | 
| Task 9 | 116 | 121 | 126 | 131 | 136 | 127.5 | 
| Task 10 |  170 | 175 | 180 | 185 | 190 |180.0 | 
| Task 11 | 152 | 157 | 162 | 167 | 172 | 162.5 |
| Task 12 | 134 | 139 | 144 | 149 | 154 |  145.0 |
| Task 14 |  98 | 103 | 108 | 113 | 118 | 108.8 |

**Observations:**
Based on the above data recorded, the team was able to calculate the critical and non-critical errors. An error is considered critical when the expected time taken to finish it is longer than usual and it has hindered a user from proceeding further. Non-critical errors include those which do not stop a user from making the next move or which do not prevent a user from completing a scenario successfully. 

1. The most amount taken by a user was on task 2 where he faced difficulty in navigating across the home screen due to overwhelming amount of games on it. This is a problem with **severity 2** as it is not frequent but consumes lots of time and hinders the user experience.
2. The Task-8 of purchasing a game was consistent with being a task where all users took most of the time to complete by themselves. Due to it being very frequent and also a critical task, we will categorise this to a problem of **severity 1**.
3. The participant 1 mentioned that task 4 was challenging to him because some of the information wasn't displayed in plain sight, but was displayed only when the mouse hovered over a button. This is a small issue that can be fixed in the UI end. Since it was observed only for 1 user and the frequency is pretty low, we can consider this as an issue with **severity 3**. 
4. The least amount was spent on tasks such as using the search bar for their games, seeing the components of the games, its rules and adding games to library/wishlist. This is because of visibility of respective buttons in plain sight. Though these are pretty positive things about the website, there are few minor issues such as the search bar being unable to include auto-correct function, improving clarity between the library & wishlist pages and displaying the components in plain text rather than hovering over a button. These issues will definitely improve the website functionalities but do not have to be fixed immediately. These can be considered as a problem with **severity 4**.

### 4.4 Post-Task Overall Questionnaire 
 
**Overall Ratings** 

After task session completion, participants rated the site for nine overall measures. These measures include:
•	Ease of use
•	Frequency of use
•	Difficulty of keeping track of where they were in the site
•	How quickly most people would learn to use the site
•	Getting information quickly 
•	Homepage’s content facilities exploration 
•	Relevancy of site content
•	Site organization
•	Overall Satisfaction


The above metrics were recorded such that they were rated by all 20 participants on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being 'strongly agree'. Since this is an overall performance questionnaire, it mostly includes the qualitative data and can be used to evaluate the prototype performance at this stage. The sections that are marked in red need to be considered as critical and the team will have to make changes accordingly in order to improve the positive agreement percentage in the respective category. 

| |Strongly Disagree | Disagree | Neutral | Agree | Strongly Agree | Mean Rating | Percentage Agree | 
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Thought 'Game Shack' was easy to use | 1 | 2 | 7 | 3 |7 |3.65 | **<span style="color:green">85%</span>** | 
| Would use 'Game Shack' frequently | 3 | 1 |  2|10 |4 | 3.55 | 80% | 
| Found it difficult to keep track of where they were in website | 3 | 6 | 5 |4| 2 | 2.8 | **<span style="color:red">55%</span>** | 
| Thought most people would learn to use 'Game Shack' quickly | 1| 2 | 5 | 8 |4 | 3.6 | **<span style="color:green">85%</span>** | 
| Can get information quickly | 4 | 2 | 3 |8 |3 | 3.2 | 70% | 
| Homepage’s content makes me want to explore site | 1 | 2 | 3| 10|4  | 3.4 | **<span style="color:green">85%</span>** | 
| Site’s content would keep me coming back | 2 | 3 | 5 | 5| 5| 3.4 | 75% | 
| Website is well organized | 2 | 2 | 3| 8| 5 | 3.6 | 80% |
| Overall Satisfaction is achieved | 0| 0|4 | 12 | 4 | 4| **<span style="color:green">87%</span>** | 

**Observations:**
1. While most of the results in the above table seem satisfactory, one of the least performing characteristic of this website is ability of users in keeping track of their navigation in the website. This means that the UI should be improved such that the users can understand their current position in the site and how to proceed forward or backward from that point.  **Problem Severity: 3**
2. Around 85 % of the users agree that the website is straight-forward and easy to use, but keeping the first observation in mind, it is important to achieve improvement in this category. We speculate that users who belong to 40+ of age found it slightly difficult than the younger ones to get familiar with the website and its functions.  **Problem Severity: 4**
3. Also, 17 out of 20 users agree that, with time and patience, all the users who find it difficult to use the website will be able to get familiar with it quickly. This is an optimistic number and it gives slight confidence to the developers on their design. 
4. The homepage of the website is currently very informative and has almost all kinds of categories displayed on it. It also consists of the most popular games and this captivates the user by increasing the attention span on it. 
5. Also, the overall satisfaction while using the website was the highest scoring at parameter 87%. Even though there are few issues reported by the users, it is commendable as it is a prototype and it is working more than the set expectations. 

Upon completion of the tasks, participants provided feedback for what they liked most and least about the website, and recommendations for improving the website. Below are the results : 

**Most liked about 'Game Shack' :**

- The game details are informative.
- The concept of the User Interface design is pleasing. 
- Summary of the user details contaning with relevant links to games, communities and clubs. 
- Easy registration process
  
**Least liked about 'Game Shack' :**

- Display of the game rules and components require hovering on the buttons.
- Confusion between the wishlist and library functions.
- Limited number of clubs
  
**Recommendations:**

- Include more number of clubs. 
- Add more information to make navigation across screens more convenient
- Provide the company mail or contact information to send feedbacks or complaints
- Currently it is available only on web browsers, consider making an application to access over all devices. 
- Include chat feature to communicate with other users in communities with mutual games. 

## 5. Conclusions

Through out the usability report and analysis, there were certain problems and issues observed after getting the user feedback. They were categorised based on the problem severities mentioned in the usability test plan. Overall, the website has achieved it's goals or fulfilling most of the requirements that were mentioned in this document. As the prototype testing was not expected to be perfect, it helped us in finding out all the problems. They have been categorised based on their severities across the document and the team will focus on improving the 'Game Shack' website accordingly. 

This was a very successful development of a website with the overall user satisfaction of 87% as seen in the questionnaire. Even though the prototype seems to have problems which can be fixed as a quick, rate it also had positive responses, satisfaction rates by the users of all categories. Finally, the usability testing helped determine how to implement the recommendations and fix issues so that, in the future, continuing to work with the users will ensure a continued user-centered website that will grow to reach millions. 

