### 1. Requirements <a name="requirements"></a>
In this section we will first discuss the Functional requirements and Non-Functional requirements of the website that is to be developed as part of this project. We were able to determine them by considering the expectations mentioned in [project proposal](1. Introduction.md#project-proposal) . This document will also consist of the detailed steps taken in order to determine the mentioned requirements. 

#### 1.1 Functional Requirements <a name="functional"></a>
This section covers the requirements of what our web-based solution should be capable of to satisfy the user expectations. The functional requirements of the website that we will plan to design are mentioned below: 
1. Allow a user to securely create an account. It should implement the user account creation policy used by many websites such as checking valid email-IDs, captcha verification, maintaining password policy. This should be a fairly straight-forward and simple procedure. 
2. Display all the available offline/board games to the user. This includes browsing games based on various categories, popularity, ranking, game manufacturing companies. 
3. Search bar should be provided so that the user can search for games that they currently do not own. We can implement spell-check or auto-prediction based on the input provided by the user for improved output accuracy.
4. User should be able to maintain a collection of the games that he shows interest in. This includes adding, removing, updating the games in his collection according to their will. 
5. Reviews of the games should be displayed to the user. We should implement this by eliminating or ignoring reviews from unreliable sources. Also, the user should be able to provide his own reviews or ratings by controlling visibility (public or anonymous). The user can also filter the reviews with tags like "most liked", "top most", "recently rated", etc. 
6. Users must be able to provide or access house rules for games. Along with this, information about official rules, games clarifications, FAQs and errata documents by the game publishers.
7. Product should allow the user to view prices of all the versions of the games chosen by them. This should include the prices of both new and used products. Links to the sellers must also be provided for each game whether it is available or out of stock.
8. Recommendation system to be implemented based on the users' previous purchases, favourites, recent searches, trending games. Recommendations can also be made based on the users' locations for nearby gaming communities/friends as well.
9. In terms of social aspects, the user should be able to search for friends or gaming clubs/communities based on his georgraphical location. This will allow them to search for potential board game players near him. 
10. The availability and locations of gaming clubs will be done by club organisers. They have the capability to promote their clubs and manage the players, events accordingly. 

#### 1.2 Non-Functional Requirements <a name="non-functional"></a>
Non-functional requirements, on the other hand, describe how the system should behave in terms of performance, security, usability, and other quality attributes. Below are the requirements that specify the constraints and limitations of our solution and define the criteria for measuring its effectiveness: 
1. Security: HTTPS protocol will be implemented to ensure that the data transmitted between the user's browser and the web server is encrypted and secure. Security audits and vulnerability testing will be done periodically to identify potential threats and take necessary actions to prevent them. 
2. Usability: The website will enables a user to navigate across it in a simple and straight forward way. The overall visual design and layout of the webpage will be designed so that it can satisfy the functional requirements by also ensuring the user can move across without difficulty. 
3. Localization: Maintaining accuracy on the data available based on locations is also important. This will include the geographical time and date of the systems so that they will align accordingly based on the user's presence. 
4. Performance: The website should be able to run on multiple devices without lagging. We will expect smooth performance on atleast 1000 devices without servers crashing. We will also test the performance of the website on low speed connections and handle timeouts at a reasonable setting.
5. Maintainability: In order to ensure smooth working of the system, tests will be implemenet periodically. In case of any failures, the team will work on handling them and keeping the server running. Time management will also be taken into consideration for bug management. 


#### 1.3 Capture Methodology <a name="capture"></a>

The goal of this website is to implement offline board game collection management by keeping it as close to the real-life experience as possible. Most types of table-top games are card games, board games, miniature war games, and role-playing games. The product will provide users with information on relevant topics and assist them in the management of their personal collections and communities. We will discuss the measures taken by the team to analyse and draft the product requirements below:

#### 1.3.1 Reading, Observation and Case Analysis

Before starting, the team gained experience and understanding of the product requirements by learning about previous similar product designs such as [BoardGameGeek.com](https://boardgamegeek.com/) or [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/)
BoardGameGeek is a good example of an online platform for tabletop gaming themes, but it has limited functionality as a support tool. One of its main shortcomings is it has not found a better way for players to manage their collections. It seems to be very confusing as a user and there is scope for improvement. Hence, this is something we want to focus on addressing with original approaches in our software design. 

Although Steam is an online game management platform, it has helped provide us with inspiration related to game collections. We also referred to its game browser implementation for our UI design and webpage organization. However, online games do not have the complexity of offline game collections. This is why our product has more complex user requirements in terms of collection management which we should keep in mind while developing the product. 

We take inspiration from user reviews and suggestions of these established platforms to understand what users expect from similar platforms. 

#### 1.3.2 Embedded Customers

All the team members are experienced in the gaming platform arena as users. In terms of engineering the product, we were able to empathize & analyse the requirements, problems from a user experience perspective. By introducing a user perspective, the developers in the team can gain a deeper understanding of the priorities of user expectations. This also helps us in comprehending usability issues encountered during the use of the product.

#### 1.4 Prioritisation <a name="prioritisation"></a>

With the help of [MoSCoW prioritization technique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MoSCoW_method) , we were able to determine the functional and non-functional requirements that can be categorised into below 4 categories:

1. Must have <a name="must-have"></a> - These are the requirements that are critical to the current delivery box. All the below mentioned requirements have to be implemented to deem the prototype a success: 
    - The first and foremost requirement is to help the user in managing their game collection. 
    -  The player usability must be a top priority. As game related options could be vast, navigating across the website must be easy to use and should not create any confusion during use. 
    -  Implementation of rating and reviews system should be done by keeping reliability in mind. Elimination of distrustful review sources can be introduced with the help of weighting system. 
    -  Social features to be included in design to allow users to interact with other players or game clubs in reality
    -  Recommendation system needs to be implemented so that the user will be able to explore the website indirectly according to their purchases, ratings, favourite games.

2.  Should have - Requirements that are essential for the project but do not have to be implemented in the given time-frame. These requirements are as important the Must-have requirements:
    - As mentioned above, in addition to game management, there are other related sections of the product, such as promotion of tabletop games, a recommendation system based on data analysis. These needs are independent of the management needs, but their fulfilment helps users to fully understand the games and thus better select and build their collections.
    - We strongly seek to implement these features, but if they are difficult to implement due to potential risks, we can also prioritise the core product requirements on the assumption that users have some knowledge of the game.

3. Could have - The requirements that are desirable but not necessary fall into this category. They can be implemented later on for improved user experience: 
    - If the operation meets expectations, the product could go further from being a game management tool to a more complete board game ecosystem. This includes creating more features around the theme of board games, such as news and promotional information to keep the users up to date. 
    - Further, the platform could gradually replace some of the features that previously relied on external links, such as creating its own online marketplace and forum.
 
4.  Won't have - The least critical and dropped requirements: 
    - The product will only be considering the offline games in it's scope. No online games can be expected by the customers while using the website. 
    - It will not contain any payment feature/interface and all such functionalities will be re-directed through the product links selected by the customer. 
