## 4 Team structure and role assignment <a name="team-page"></a>
This document describes the team efforts and structure that was followed while developing the project work. It discusses in detail about the roles and qualifications of all the 4 team members that have worked on this assignment. 
We will also be talking about the contribution made by the team members in the coursework as well as the reasons for their assigned work. The team has adopted the [agile methodolody](https://www.atlassian.com/agile) while working on this project. We had regular Scrum meetings and the work was monitored periodically. We have taken the timeline of 4 weeks as 2 sprints and met regularly among the team to assign the tasks. This helped us in maintaining a steady progress through out this assignment so far. 

### 4.1 Team Roles and Assignment of Work <a name="roles"></a>
#### Nithya Vupparapalli

Role: Team leader, back-end designer, tester

Responsibilities: Organising teamwork, planning the progress of tasks, summarising documents and results, development of back-end for the project, integrating test-cases

Work done: Organised team members to get to know each other, lead regular offline meetings and online communication, monitor the progress of the software design and set time targets, consolidate the team members' work into a final version of the report. 

Reasons for assignment: Nithya has extensive experience working in a team and has a better understanding of project schedule control and team organisation. She has a positive and attentive personality and excellent communication skills, and is able to organise a workload with a great deal of detail and to understand and integrate the ideas of the group members.


#### Jichao Yang
Role: Designer, Tester

Responsibilities: Generate ideas for software design, collect feedback and refine system design, communicate with engineers. Will be participating in the future development of the project work as well as testing the prototype. 

Work in submission 1: Complete the initial version of the system design according to user requirements

Reasons for assignment: Jichao has experience in designing and has an understanding of design principles. He has an active and outgoing personality and is good at coming up with innovative solutions. He is also a board game player and therefore has a more practical understanding of task requirements and user psychology.


#### Sartaj Syed
Role: Developer, Tester

Responsibilities: Design and implementation of software

Work in submission 1: Development of some pages in the UI design, final integration of the UI design and control flow development. He is to engineer the front-end of the website later during the development phase. 

Reasons for assignment: Sartaj has good programming and engineering skills and is familiar with the use of software and tools. He understands the design goals and can clearly outline the software development process. He possesses skills for both front-end and back-end development and will be a necessary asset towards the team in further phases of the project. 

#### Guanwen Lu
Role: Scrum master, Engineer, Tester

Responsibilities: Design and implementation of software

Work in submission 1: Development of some pages in UI design, user interaction design and usability analysis. 

Reasons for assignment: Guanwen has good programming skills and engineering thinking, and is familiar with design examples from game platforms, which provides a useful reference for our software design. He is a good communicator and is able to learn to use ui design tools quickly and is considered to be a team connector.

In the process of assigning team roles, we took the following additional factors into consideration to make the whole team work more successfully. Firstly, the role of the team leader is very important. The team leader integrates everyone's work, organises discussions and collates feedback. This gives a fixed and clear flow to each stage of the work. Although each group member had their own roles and responsibilities, the members all contributed to the project planning, software design, coding and other parts of the discussion and work process. Secondly, the handover of design ideas to implementation (mainly ui design in submission 1) required a particularly high quality of communication and was the focus and difficulty of the whole development work; Jichao and Guanwen are both from China and this distribution of roles was positive for the task, considering that they could communicate more clearly without language barriers. In addition to this, the software implementation workload was heavy, so more than one engineer was required to take on this task. Sartaj and Guanwen not only share the workload by working together, but also provide different ideas and perspectives on the design.

Although the tasks have been equally assigned to all the team members, everyone showed leadership qualities and active participation in ensuring to finish their tasks. The team also took responsibility to ensure that other members' tasks were also done on time. This helped in creating a harmonious flow of the work and will continue to be of use during the development, testing and deployment phase of the product. 

### 4.2 Communication Process <a name="communication"></a>
Depending on the occasion and role of communication, we have adopted the following communication methods in the cooperation process.

Periodic meetings: This was mainly used for regular formal discussions and summaries on specific topics. In each meeting, the team discusses the phase topic according to a planned meeting agenda and assigns the following tasks. The group members take turns to speak and present their work progress, reading gains and ideas. Such meetings are planned as weekly and so far five meetings have been organised on the following topics: team and members (members meet for the first time, introduce themselves and get to know each other), task analysis and discussion of requirements, system design, ui design, and summary and submission of the first report. The advantages of this approach are its formality, organisation and synchronisation. The meetings allow us to effectively aggregate the work of individual people and to keep a tight control on the chronological progress of the tasks.

Microsoft Teams: As a convenient platform, this is mainly used for regular group discussions. The working habits and details of progress of the group members differed during specific periods of each task phase. When any group member has a temporary question or a sudden idea, they send a message in the group and other members can join the discussion at any time. This type of communication is convenient, time-efficient and asynchronous. For any detailed issue in software design or collaboration, group members can discuss it frequently and intensively, or they can express their ideas in an informal but efficient way after thorough consideration. Scrum meetings were organised on this platform and the team participated pro-actively in discussing the progress and issues observed during this phase. 

Email: This is mainly used by the group leader (the initiator and organizer of communication) to issue announcements, including the collation of key timelines, meeting schedules and minutes. An important role of the team leader is to control and plan the progress and schedule of the team's work. This information is recorded in writing and distributed to each team member so that each team member has a clear and specific understanding of tasks and can complete individual tasks efficiently.

GitLab: As an interactive and collaborative tool, the group uploads the work in progress that has been turned into concrete results to the GitLab platform, where it is explained and edited together. Within each phase, the most important results and pending problems are uploaded to the wiki and issues sections respectively, forming a formal written record. Here the group members collaborate by making direct edits to the design documents and reports.
